# brokerapi

[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/pivotal-cf/brokerapi.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/pivotal-cf/brokerapi)

A Go package for building [V2 Open Service Broker
API](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/) compliant Service
Brokers.

## [Docs](https://godoc.org/github.com/pivotal-cf/brokerapi)

## Dependencies

- Go 1.11+
- [lager](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/lager)
- [gorilla/mux](https://github.com/gorilla/mux)

We use [dep](https://github.com/golang/dep) to manager our dependencies. Use
`dep ensure` in order to download the required packages.

## Usage

`brokerapi` defines a
[`ServiceBroker`](https://godoc.org/github.com/pivotal-cf/brokerapi#ServiceBroker)
interface. Pass an implementation of this to
[`brokerapi.New`](https://godoc.org/github.com/pivotal-cf/brokerapi#New), which
returns an `http.Handler` that you can use to serve handle HTTP requests.

Alternatively, if you already have a `*mux.Router` that you want to attach
service broker routes to, you can use
[`brokerapi.AttachRoutes`](https://godoc.org/github.com/pivotal-cf/brokerapi#AttachRoutes).
Note in this case, the Basic Authentication and Originating Identity middleware
will not be set up, so you will have to attach them manually if required.

## Error types

`brokerapi` defines a handful of error types in `service_broker.go` for some
common error cases that your service broker may encounter. Return these from
your `ServiceBroker` methods where appropriate, and `brokerapi` will do the
"right thing" (â„¢), and give Cloud Foundry an appropriate status code, as per
the [Service Broker API
specification](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/services/api.html).

### Custom Errors

`NewFailureResponse()` allows you to return a custom error from any of the
`ServiceBroker` interface methods which return an error. Within this you must
define an error, a HTTP response status code and a logging key. You can also
use the `NewFailureResponseBuilder()` to add a custom `Error:` value in the
response, or indicate that the broker should return an empty response rather
than the error message.

## Request Context

When provisioning a service `brokerapi` validates the `service_id` and `plan_id`
in the request, attaching the found instances to the request Context. These
values can be retrieved in a `brokerapi.ServiceBroker` implementation using 
utility methods `RetrieveServiceFromContext` and `RetrieveServicePlanFromContext`
as shown below.

```golang
func (sb *ServiceBrokerImplementation) Provision(ctx context.Context,
  instanceID string, details brokerapi.ProvisionDetails, asyncAllowed bool) {

  service := brokerapi.RetrieveServiceFromContext(ctx)
  if service == nil {
    // Lookup service
  }

  // [..]
}
```

## Originating Identity

The request context for every request contains the unparsed
`X-Broker-API-Originating-Identity` header under the key
`originatingIdentityKey`.  More details on how the Open Service Broker API
manages request originating identity is available
[here](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/master/spec.md#originating-identity).

## Example Service Broker

You can see the
[cf-redis](https://github.com/pivotal-cf/cf-redis-broker/blob/2f0e9a8ebb1012a9be74bbef2d411b0b3b60352f/broker/broker.go)
service broker uses the BrokerAPI package to create a service broker for Redis.
